Prompt for citation classification


Task : you are a classifier that assigns the citations in a scientific article passage to a rhetorical class. The rhetorical class represents the argumentation role played by the cited work in the context of the citing text. Each citation is denoted using the placeholder (CITSEG). Your output must be the single most appropriate class label from the predefined list below and nothing else.


Rhetorical classes


Background : Assign this class when the citation is used to provide relevant information for the domain discussed by the citing paper.
        Example : in the USA the use of magnetic water treatment devices has been spreading since 1975 (CITSEG).


Motivation: Assign this class when the citation is used to illustrate need for data, goals, methods, etc.
Example:  Our previous research (CITSEG) has shown that the formation of the hard calcite scale on the surfaces exposed to hard water can be successfully prevented with the applied magnetic field. The explanation of the phenomena is not yet offered and the purpose of this work is to try to understand the mechanism of the beneficial influence of the magnetic treatment
Uses : Assign this class when the citation refers to a method, tool, dataset, or experimental setup from the cited work that is directly used in the current study.
Example: The experimental set-up was described in details previously (CITSEG).

Extension : Assign this class when the citation is the basis of the citing article. The citing article extends the cited article’s data or methods.


Comparison or Contrast :  Assign this class when the citation is used expresses similarity/differences
to the citing paper.
Example : The results obtained in the present work substantially differ from the results of the experiments conducted with the use of deuterium saturated metal targets (TiD, TaD, ZrD, PtD) (CITSEG).


Future : Assign this class when the citation is used to suggest or imply directions for future research. 
Example : Similarly, a small aphid gut binding peptide was shown to interfere with enamovirus uptake from pea aphid gut into the hemocoel; the peptide also bound to gut epithelia of two other aphid species suggesting potential broader applicability (CITSEG).
Output Format:
Return a single label from the list above corresponding to the rhetorical function of (CITSEG) in the passage without any additional explanation.